Initial implementation (#2)
cisagov/skeleton-golang-package: README.md

Reviewer: The README should be updated to include some instructions on how to actually install/run this code.

Author: README updated with background information and instructions. Please let me know if any additional information is needed

Reviewer: Can you please share the relevant commit(s) where you did this?  We always prefer to see those in replies because it makes re-reviewing much easier.

Author: This is the commit where I added additional information: https://github.com/cisagov/skeleton-golang-package/commit/22f0572a8ee6fb79c416583dadb0e0d54f534218

Smaller changes/improvements relating to wording and punctuation were made in multiple commits such as: 
480e67e5bacf1894451ab04315fb266873951e7d
df5cb4cd0d5c209d9852e20ba55df2a1841bbcb1
f132619e3101ac42b51254bb4f5dbc0f090330e7

Reviewer 2: Please run through the documentation here and ensure it reflects the current state of this branch.

Author: Please see https://github.com/cisagov/skeleton-golang-package/pull/2/commits/dda934386954b2aaf0c26c1d6742980e6715ae28

new [cisagov](https://github.com/cisagov) Go project started.
This skeleton project contains [licensing information](LICENSE), as
well as [pre-commit hooks](https://pre-commit.com) and
[GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) configurations
appropriate for a Go package.

## Installation ##

To install the example package, use `go build`:

```console
cd src/example
go build
```

This will produce an executable `example` within the current directory.

Execute the `./example` binary to run the program.

You should see the contents of the main package as defined in [main.go](src/example/main.go).

### Nix ###

If you have [Nix](https://nixos.org/download.html) installed you can use
the [flake.nix](flake.nix) configuration file located at the root of the
project to build and run the `example` package:

```console
nix run
```

After the build has completed the program will automatically execute. The build
will also have created a `result` directory within the root of the project.
This directory contains a `bin` subdirectory where the executable `example` can
be found: `result/bin/example`

To run the program simply execute the binary from the project root:

```console

> ./result/bin/example

Reviewer: In keeping with our recent changes:
```suggestion
result/bin/example
```

Reviewer: Or if you prefer:
```suggestion
cd result/bin
./example
```

Though if you went this route, you'd need to change the text above from "To run the program simply execute the binary from the project root" to "To run the program simply execute the `example` binary".

command in the project root:

```console
nix develop
```

If you make changes to the project files you will need to update `vendorSha256`
in `flake.nix`  You can do this by running `nix build` and you should be presented
with an error similar to:

```console
error: hash mismatch in fixed-output derivation '/nix/store/11a71sp1wynjgxinx6yb0yhli4q659zi-example-20230424-go-modules.drv':
         specified: sha256-+aBatR0sHWkykrQr8AMD0P5xoc4VEXtA+egp6PxsKzY=
            got:    sha256-gqfvjULp2VApWQl7yFVj45meYpcS4XefUtEUy+TtAH4=
error: 1 dependencies of derivation '/nix/store/nm6xhgfawf67sy89rl9azdzvnjc5r7cr-example-20230424.drv' failed to build
```

You would then copy the `got` hash and use it to replace the previous
 `vendorSha256` value within `flake.nix`.

If `flake.nix` changes or is modified you will also need to update the
`flake.lock` file. You can do this by running: `nix flake update`. It is
also recommended to then run `nix build` after this operation to ensure
the build will be successful.

## Testing ##

You can execute tests for the `example` package by running the following
command from within the `src/example` directory:

```console

> cd ./skeleton-golang-package/src/example

Reviewer: Looks like we missed one:
```suggestion
cd src/example
```

# skeleton-golang-package #

[![GitHub Build Status](https://github.com/cisagov/skeleton-golang-package/workflows/build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cisagov/skeleton-golang-package/actions)

This is a generic skeleton project that can be used to quickly get a
new [cisagov](https://github.com/cisagov) Go project started.
This skeleton project contains [licensing information](LICENSE), as
well as [pre-commit hooks](https://pre-commit.com) and
[GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) configurations

> appropriate for the major languages that we use.

Reviewer: Change skeleton-generic text to be appropriate for this repo:
```suggestion
appropriate for a Go package.
```

## Installation ##

To install the example package, use `go build`:

```console

> cd ./skeleton-golang-package/src/example

Reviewer: It is a fairly standard practice to make all references relative to the project's root. It's also one less place where a downstream repo has to worry about changing references from skeleton-golang-package to their repo name.

```suggestion
cd src/example
```

go build
```

This will produce an executable `example` within the current directory.

Execute the `./example` binary to run the program.

You should see the contents of the main package as defined in [main.go](src/example/main.go).

### Nix ###

If you have [Nix](https://nixos.org/download.html) installed you can use
the [flake.nix](flake.nix) configuration file located at the root of the
project to build and run the `example` package:

```console

> cd ./skeleton-golang-package

Reviewer: I think this line is redundant (based on the text that precedes it) and can be removed:
```suggestion
```

nix run
```

After the build has completed the program will automatically execute. The build
will also have created a `result` directory within the root of the project.
This directory contains a `bin` subdirectory where the executable `example` can
be found: `result/bin/example`

> To run the program simply execute the binary from the root of the `skeleton-golang-package`:

Reviewer: One less place where a downstream repo has to worry about changing references from skeleton-golang-package to their repo name:
```suggestion
To run the program simply execute the binary from the project root:
```

```console
./result/bin/example
```

Alternatively, if you want to execute an interactive build environment
with all available dependencies for this project you can run this
command in the project root:

```console

> cd ./skeleton-golang-package

Reviewer: I think this line is redundant (based on the text that precedes it) and can be removed:
```suggestion
```

nix develop
```

If you make changes to the project files you will need to update `vendorSha256`
in `flake.nix`  You can do this by running `nix build` and you should be presented
with an error similar to:

```console
error: hash mismatch in fixed-output derivation '/nix/store/11a71sp1wynjgxinx6yb0yhli4q659zi-example-20230424-go-modules.drv':
         specified: sha256-+aBatR0sHWkykrQr8AMD0P5xoc4VEXtA+egp6PxsKzY=
            got:    sha256-gqfvjULp2VApWQl7yFVj45meYpcS4XefUtEUy+TtAH4=
error: 1 dependencies of derivation '/nix/store/nm6xhgfawf67sy89rl9azdzvnjc5r7cr-example-20230424.drv' failed to build
```

> You would then copy the `got` hash and replace it with the current `vendorSha256`
> within `flake.nix`

Reviewer: Improve wording a bit:
```suggestion
You would then copy the `got` hash and use it to replace the previous
 `vendorSha256` value within `flake.nix`.
```

If `flake.nix` changes or is modified you will also need to update the

> `flake.lock` file. You can do this by running: `nix flake update` It is

Reviewer: Add missing period:
```suggestion
`flake.lock` file. You can do this by running: `nix flake update`. It is
```

also recommended to then run `nix build` after this operation to ensure
the build will be successful.

## Testing ##

You can execute tests for the `example` package by running the following

> command from within the `./skeleton-golang-package/src/example` directory:

Reviewer: Make all references relative to the project's root:
```suggestion
command from within the `src/example` directory:
```

> command from within the `./skeleton-golang-package/src/example` directory:
> 
> ```console
> cd ./skeleton-golang-package/src/example

Reviewer: It is a fairly standard practice to make all references relative to the project's root.  It's also one less place where a downstream repo has to worry about changing references from `skeleton-golang-package` to their repo name.

```suggestion
command from within the `src/example` directory:

```console
cd src/example
```

go test -v test/example_test.go

> ```

Reviewer: I'm not sure if I missed any discussion around this, but since there are tests, shouldn't our GitHub Actions `build` workflow include running those tests?  We do [something similar in our Python skeleton](https://github.com/cisagov/skeleton-python-library/blob/65efbf63dbfc4f2dfaec9190d1ec9448af565f64/.github/workflows/build.yml#L105-L161).

Author: There wasn't but okay I'll add to the workflow.

Reviewer: Please indicate which commits you added to include testing in the `build` workflow and I can resolve this conversation.

Author: Initial: https://github.com/cisagov/skeleton-golang-package/commit/bfd315401f2c55947816315210c7b245c09d0281 And updated: https://github.com/cisagov/skeleton-golang-package/commit/6ef5cc3eb584a30042cef6961279e2b891195a1c

This will run tests for the `example` package as defined in

> [`example_test.go`](src/example/test/example_test.go)

Reviewer: Add missing period:
```suggestion
[`example_test.go`](src/example/test/example_test.go).
```

# skeleton-golang-package #

[![GitHub Build Status](https://github.com/cisagov/skeleton-golang-package/workflows/build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cisagov/skeleton-golang-package/actions)

This is a generic skeleton project that can be used to quickly get a
new [cisagov](https://github.com/cisagov) Go project started.
This skeleton project contains [licensing information](LICENSE), as
well as [pre-commit hooks](https://pre-commit.com) and
[GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) configurations
appropriate for the major languages that we use.

## Installation ##

To install the example package, use `go build`:

```console
cd ./skeleton-golang-package/src/example
go build
```

This will produce an executable `example` within the current directory.

Execute the `./example` binary to run the program.

You should see the contents of the main package as defined in [main.go](src/example/main.go).

### Nix ###

> If you have [Nix](https://nixos.org/download.html) installed you can use
> the available [flake.nix](flake.nix) within the root of the project to build
> and run the `example` package:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you have [Nix](https://nixos.org/download.html) installed you can use
the [flake.nix](flake.nix) configuration file located at the root of the
project to build and run the `example` package:
```

```console
cd ./skeleton-golang-package
nix run
```

> After the build has completed the program will automatically execute. It will
> also have created a `result` directory within the root of the project. That
> directory contains a `bin` directory where the executable `example` can
> be found: `result/bin/example`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After the build has completed the program will automatically execute. The build
will also have created a `result` directory within the root of the project.
This directory contains a `bin` subdirectory where the executable `example` can
be found: `result/bin/example`
```

> You can execute the binary from the root of the `skeleton-golang-package`
> directory to run the program:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To run the program simply execute the binary from the root of the `skeleton-golang-package`:
```

```console
./result/bin/example
```

> Alternatively, if you want to execute an interactive build environment
> with all available dependencies for this project you can run the below
> command in the project root:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Alternatively, if you want to execute an interactive build environment
with all available dependencies for this project you can run this
command in the project root:
```

```console
cd ./skeleton-golang-package
nix develop
```

## Testing ##

> You can execute tests for the `example` package by running the below
> command from within the `./skeleton-golang-package/src/example` directory:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can execute tests for the `example` package by running the following
command from within the `./skeleton-golang-package/src/example` directory:
```

```console
cd ./skeleton-golang-package/src/example
go test -v test/example_test.go
```

This will run tests for the `example` package as defined in
[`example_test.go`](src/example/test/example_test.go)

> ## Docs ##

Reviewer: We generally avoid using abbreviations in our documentation (and in this case, for the word "documentation"):
```suggestion
## Documentation ##
```

> This project makes use of `godoc` if you would like to view
> its documentation in one location. Run the below command to
> access in your browser:

Reviewer 3: Clearer wording:
```suggestion
This project makes use of `godoc`. If you would like to view
its documentation in one location, simply run the command below and
point your browser to `http://localhost:6060`:
```

This skeleton project contains [licensing information](LICENSE), as
well as [pre-commit hooks](https://pre-commit.com) and
[GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) configurations
appropriate for a Go package.

## Installation ##

To install the example package, use `go build`:

```console
go build --ldflags "-X 'main.version=$(git describe --tag --abbrev=0)'"  -o skeleton-golang-package-$(git describe --tag --abbrev=0)
```

This will produce an executable `skeleton-golang-package-v*` with an appended
version number within the current directory.

Execute the `./skeleton-golang-package-v*` binary to run the program.

You should see the contents of the main package as defined in [main.go](src/example/main.go).

> 
> To

Reviewer 3: Should this be removed?
```suggestion
```

Author: Thanks!

This skeleton project contains [licensing information](LICENSE), as
well as [pre-commit hooks](https://pre-commit.com) and
[GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) configurations
appropriate for a Go package.

## Installation ##

To install the example package, use `go build`:

```console

> go build --ldflags "-X 'main.version=$(git describe --tag --abbrev=0)'"  -o skeleton-golang-package-$(git describe --tag --abbrev=0)

Reviewer 2: Just matching the flag as it appears in `go help build`. I also eliminated an unnecessary space.

```suggestion
go build -ldflags "-X 'main.version=$(git describe --tag --abbrev=0)'" -o skeleton-golang-package-$(git describe --tag --abbrev=0)
```

```

You would then copy the `got` hash and use it to replace the previous
 `vendorSha256` value within `flake.nix`.

If `flake.nix` changes or is modified you will also need to update the
`flake.lock` file. You can do this by running: `nix flake update`. It is
also recommended to then run `nix build` after this operation to ensure
that the build is successful.

## SBOM ##

A Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) is like a recipe card for software,
detailing all the ingredients (components, libraries, dependencies)
used to cook up a digital product. It's a crucial tool for understanding
what goes into software, helping with things like spotting vulnerabilities,
ensuring license compliance, and keeping an eye on supply chain security.
However, SBOM isn't a magic fix for security issues itself—it's more of a
roadmap that helps teams navigate potential risks. It's not a substitute
for good coding practices or regular updates, but a helpful companion in
the journey towards stronger software security.

The SBOM found in this project was generated using [cyclonedx-gomod](https://github.com/CycloneDX/cyclonedx-gomod).

> The exact commands used can be found below.

Reviewer: @cisagov/team-ois Should we have the SBOM files generated as part of the automated build process?

Do these SBOM changes belong in skeleton-generic or any of the other skeleton repos? 

@felddy, I know you have spent time thinking about SBOM, so please add any thoughts you have here.

Reviewer 4: SBOMs **should not** be checked in as part of the codebase.  

SBOMs related to a **build artifact** (binary, image, etc...)  should be attached to the build process, and published as assets along side the release.
e.g.:
- https://github.com/felddy/foundryvtt-docker/releases/tag/v11.315.1

SBOMs **derived from declarations** in the codebase can be generated on-the-fly:  
- https://github.com/cisagov/skeleton-golang-package/network/dependencies

Also, as there are no meaningful differences between the competing SBOM formats, I think we should be consistent with GitHub's tooling and generate spdx files.  This will allow our repositories to leverage the GitHub's dependency submission API:
- https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/supply-chain-security/understanding-your-software-supply-chain/using-the-dependency-submission-api
- https://github.com/marketplace/actions/go-dependency-submission

Author: @felddy thanks. so, in that case I will remove it since we're not pushing binaries.

Reviewer: @jasonodoom Are you planning to do this in this initial PR?

> SBOMs related to a build artifact (binary, image, etc...) should be attached to the build process, and published as assets along side the release.

Author: No, I was told we don't ship binaries.

Reviewer: I remember a discussion earlier in this PR where we said that we don't want to check binaries into source control, but in [this conversation](https://github.com/cisagov/skeleton-golang-package/pull/2#discussion_r1524318200), we are saying that we want to attach the built package as an artifact to the workflow run (e.g. like we do [here](https://github.com/cisagov/skeleton-python-library/actions/runs/8703681302)).  So if we do that, we should also add SBOMs for each artifact as well.  As with that other conversation, let us know if that is something that you plan to do in this PR or document in an issue as later work.

Anyone else, feel free to correct if I'm misunderstanding any of this.

Author: @dav3r I added additional info here too: https://github.com/cisagov/skeleton-golang-package/issues/13

Reviewer: Thanks for including the SBOM artifact creation in #13. 👍

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: The `bash` formatting type should really be reserved for actual bash scripting.

```suggestion
```console
```

cyclonedx-gomod mod -std -json -output bom.json  ./
```

> Generates an SBOM in json format, includes the aggregate of modules

Reviewer: Minor nitpick- we usually capitalize this:
```suggestion
Generates an SBOM in JSON format, includes the aggregate of modules
```

required by all packages in the target module. This optionally

> includes modules required by tests and test packages. Build
> constraints are NOT evaluated, allowing for a "whole picture"

Reviewer: Add emphasis here to clearly show the difference from the next command:
```suggestion
includes modules required by tests and test packages. **Build
constraints are not evaluated**, allowing for a "whole picture"
```

view on the target module's dependencies.

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: The `bash` formatting type should really be reserved for actual bash scripting.

```suggestion
```console
```

cyclonedx-gomod app -std -json -output sbom.json  ./
```

> Generates an SBOM in json format for only the

Reviewer: Minor nitpick- we usually capitalize this:
```suggestion
Generates an SBOM in JSON format for only the
```

modules the target application depends on. Modules required by tests
or packages that are not imported by the application are not included.

> Build constraints are evaluated, which enables a very detailed view of

Reviewer: Add emphasis here to clearly show the difference from the previous command:
```suggestion
**Build constraints are evaluated**, which enables a very detailed view of
```

what's really compiled into an application's binary.

This project does not inlude executables but if that changes in the future
or if the application is modified to include additional dependencies or updates

> the SBOM should be updated to reflect that.

Reviewer: Since the SBOM files were removed in https://github.com/cisagov/skeleton-golang-package/pull/2/commits/8065662c1f615c947757bd68005c6cb6b917fb48, this "SBOM" section in the README should also be removed.

Author: Please see https://github.com/cisagov/skeleton-golang-package/pull/2/commits/ff165b5e667ac8de49c92eddbd5bc199091c7319

Reviewer: Thanks @jasonodoom 👍

This skeleton project contains [licensing information](LICENSE), as
well as [pre-commit hooks](https://pre-commit.com) and
[GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) configurations
appropriate for a Go package.

> ## Installation ##

Reviewer 2: Please update to include an explanation for how to build with a specific version in the generated binary.

Author: > Please update to include an explanation for how to build with a specific version in the generated binary.

what do you mean? can you please explain? I am under the impression that if a user were looking for a specific version they would just clone and build from that?

Reviewer 2: Apologies for being unclear. I mean a short blurb that explains how to build a binary such that https://github.com/cisagov/skeleton-golang-package/blob/56dc6d7a71418499be8dce1cdce7c056b00c943e/main.go#L40 is populated with an actual version in the binary.

Author: @mcdonnnj aah, gotcha. Your comment made me realize maybe it's better to not hard-code the version number but grab it from git instead. So I've made some mods. Please see https://github.com/cisagov/skeleton-golang-package/commit/e58b056aa822248cfc1ed659ab56df0384636e3c

Reviewer 2: The `(devel)` is only supposed to be a placeholder so that there is an actual version value no matter how the binary is built. The value is overwritten when you build per your example so there should be no harm in leaving the value as it matches the default module version you would get from a [BuildInfo struct](https://pkg.go.dev/runtime/debug#BuildInfo).

Author: Sure, please see https://github.com/cisagov/skeleton-golang-package/pull/2/commits/470bf50080d356d23a104dbbba4c9395a1b72e47

To install the example package, use `go build`:

```console
cd src/example
go build
```

This will produce an executable `example` within the current directory.

Execute the `./example` binary to run the program.

> You should see the contents of the main package as defined in [main.go](src/example/main.go).

Reviewer 2: I do not believe this is correct information based on the current state of the repository.

Author: Please see https://github.com/cisagov/skeleton-golang-package/pull/2/commits/7a02cf40868c3c4479826ebdc47cb242e1d10c45

Reviewer 2: Thank you for updating the binary name but there is no `src/example` directory in this branch. As far as I can tell you would run `go build` in the repository root.

Author: Right, that's old information based on the initial structure. Please see: https://github.com/cisagov/skeleton-golang-package/commit/f03e6441ec610e3fb09aca074001ca326c1f942e

result/bin/skeleton-golang-package
```

Alternatively, if you want to execute an interactive build environment
with all available dependencies for this project you can run this
command in the project root:

```console
nix develop
```

If you make changes to the project files you will need to update `vendorSha256`
in `flake.nix`  You can do this by running `nix build` and you should be presented
with an error similar to:

```console
error: hash mismatch in fixed-output derivation '/nix/store/11a71sp1wynjgxinx6yb0yhli4q659zi-skeleton-golang-package-20230424-go-modules.drv':
         specified: sha256-+aBatR0sHWkykrQr8AMD0P5xoc4VEXtA+egp6PxsKzY=
            got:    sha256-gqfvjULp2VApWQl7yFVj45meYpcS4XefUtEUy+TtAH4=
error: 1 dependencies of derivation '/nix/store/nm6xhgfawf67sy89rl9azdzvnjc5r7cr-skeleton-golang-package-20230424.drv' failed to build
```

You would then copy the `got` hash and use it to replace the previous
 `vendorSha256` value within `flake.nix`.

If `flake.nix` changes or is modified you will also need to update the
`flake.lock` file. You can do this by running: `nix flake update`. It is
also recommended to then run `nix build` after this operation to ensure

> the build will be successful.

Reviewer: Minor language tweak:
```suggestion
that the build is successful.
```

> In many cases you will instead want to use one of the more specific
> skeleton projects derived from this one.
> 

Reviewer: This block only applies to skeleton-generic and can be deleted in this repo.
```suggestion
```

## Installation ##

To install the example package, use `go build`:

```console
cd ./skeleton-golang-package/src/example
go build
```

This will produce an executable `example` within the current directory.

Execute the `./example` binary to run the program.

> You should see the contents of the main package as defined in [main.go](src/example/main.go)

Reviewer: Add a missing period:
```suggestion
You should see the contents of the main package as defined in [main.go](src/example/main.go).
```

### Nix ###

If you have [Nix](https://nixos.org/download.html) installed you can use
the available [flake.nix](flake.nix) within the root of the project to build
and run the `example` package:

```console
cd ./skeleton-golang-package
nix run
```

After the build has completed the program will automatically execute. It will

> also have created a `result` directory within the root of the project. In that

Reviewer: Clean up wording slightly:
```suggestion
also have created a `result` directory within the root of the project. That
```

 directory contains a `bin` directory where the executable `example` can

>   be found: `result/bin/example`

Reviewer: Remove extraneous leading spaces:
```suggestion
directory contains a `bin` directory where the executable `example` can
be found: `result/bin/example`
```

You can execute the binary from the root of the `skeleton-golang-package`
directory to run the program:

```console
./result/bin/example
```

Alternatively, if you want to execute an interactive build environment
with all available dependencies for this project you can run the below

>  command in the project root:

Reviewer: Remove extraneous leading space:
```suggestion
command in the project root:
```
